[MUSIC]
Some summary functions exist within Excel
to aggregate data on a conditional basis.
Ones important such functions is COUNTIFS.
COUNTIFS allows you to count
the number of occurrences
of a specific condition
across a range of data.
Let's use COUNTIFS to answer
the questions in problem 1a.
Problem 1a asks us to
find the number of sales
of each of the products
listed in column bravo.
COUNTIFS takes as parameters the range
of data you wish to count from,
and the criteria to satisfy when
counting values in that range.
Let's point COUNTIFS from our
product column of the dataset
using the value in cell bravo 12 and
set it to work.
You'll notice the clarity that structured
references provide our formulas,
as Excel has intelligently
substituted the table name and
column name along with some special syntax
for the typical cell references we see.
We could type these values into
the COUNTIFS formula directly using tab
completion and going forward,
we may do this out of convenience.
You'll also notice that because we
have formatted the problem table as
an Excel table,
the formula automatically fills down when
we type it into the first
cell of a column.
Let's validate our answers manually to
confirm that we've calculated what we
intended to.
This is a good practice for
your own spreadsheet analysis.
We see that COUNTIFS counted 11
sales of the pure soft detergent
100 milliliter product.
If we pop back over to the dataset,
we can filter on this value
to validate our answer.
We see that indeed there were
11 sales of the 100 milliliter
detergent product as verified by
the count value in the bottom right side
of the status bar of Excel when
we highlight the filtered cells.
The next part of our problem asks
us to count the number of sales for
which revenue meets certain criteria.
COUNTIFS can be used to quickly
calculate such summaries.
We can pass COUNTIFS building in tests
to apply against values in
the range we are counting from.
Let's see how this works.
If we want to count the sales which
resulted in more than $1,000 in revenue,
we first pass COUNTIFS the range
of values to count from.
In this case the revenue
column of our data table.
Next, we posit the criteria to evaluate.
In this case, a string of text, the syntax
of which should feel very familiar.
It's greater than 1,000 in quotes,
and then we set the formula to work.
Let's validate our answer against the
dataset by filtering down revenue values
for those greater than 1000.
Excel provides a simple
way to filter by number.
Let's select the number
filters option from
the filter drop down on
the revenue column of the dataset.
Then we'll select greater than, and
type 1,000 into the dialog box.
We see that, indeed, there were 27 sales
which produced revenues of $1,000 or more.
We can copy this formula to the next
cell and make one small change, and
answer the question of how many sales
resulted in revenues of less than $1,000.
Let's quickly change the greater than
symbol to a less than symbol and
set COUNTIFS to work.
We can validate our answer in
a similar fashion as previously and
confirm that there 80 sales less than $1000.
We'll select the less than option from the
number filter's dropdown menu this time.
We can copy this formula
again to the next cell and
make another small change to
answer the question of how many cells
resulted in revenues
exactly equal to $1000.
Let's quickly change the less than symbol,
and set COUNTIFS to work.
We can validate our answer in
a similar fashion as previously.
And confirm that there were no sales
resulting in revenues equal to $1000.
We'll select the equals option from the
number filter's drop-down menu this time.
We can copy this formula to the next
cell and make another small change,
to answer the question of how many sales
resulted in revenues not equal to $1000.
Let's quickly change the less than symbol,
and set COUNTIFS to work.
We can validate our answer in
a similar fashion as previously and
confirm that there were 107 sales
resulting in revenues not equal to $1,000.
We'll select the does not equal option
from the number filters drop down menu
this time.
Now it's your turn to demonstrate
your understanding of COUNTIFS by
completing problem 1b.
[MUSIC]